.TH NGREP-SIP 8 2008-12-24 "Linux" "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
ngrep-sip \- capture SIP flow based on ngrep command
.PP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ngrep-sip
[ \fIMATCH\fR ] [ \fIFILTER\fR ]
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
Based on
.BR ngrep (7),
\fIngrep-sip\fR allows matching based on SIP methods or custom message fields and also defining \fIpcap\fR filters.
.PP
.SS MATCH
Optional \fBMATCH\fR parameter can contain a special keyword or some text which must be present in the data.
.PP
The special keywords are:
.TP
\fBb\fR, \fBbasic\fR
Capture transactions with SIP method INVITE, ACK, CANCEL, BYE, REFER, PRACK, INFO and MESSAGE.
.TP
\fBbr\fR, \fBrb\fR
Some as \fBb\fR, \fBbasic\fR plus REGISTER method.
.TP
\fBr\fR
Capture REGISTER transactions.
.TP
\fBp\fR
Capture SUBSCRIBE, PUBLISH and NOTIFY transactions.
.TP
\fBpr\fR, \fBrp\fR
Some as \fBp\fR plus REGISTER method.
.TP
\fB-o\fR
Capture transactions with any method but OPTIONS.
.TP
\fB-or\fR, \fB-ro\fR
Capture transactions with any method but OPTIONS or REGISTER.
.PP
Any other text can be used to set \fBMATCH\fR parameter. In this case that text will be required in the data being captured. It allows regular expressions. Examples:
.TP
666555444
Capture all messages containing "666555444" text in headers or body.
.TP
"(123|124)@"
Capture all messages containing "123@" or "124@" text in headers or body.
.TP
"^SIP/2.0 5"
Capture all 5XX responses.
.TP
"^INVITE sip:111@"
Capture all INVITE requests with RURI starting with "sip:111@".
.PP
.SS FILTER
\fIpcap\fR filter. See below in "CONFIGURATION" - "filter" section.
.PP
.SH CONFIGURATION
The script gets some parameters from \fI/etc/ngrep-sip.conf\fR file:
.PP
.SS interface
Interface in which \fIngrep\fR must capture data. Possible values are \fIeth0\fR, \fIeth1\fR, \fIlo\fR, \fIany\fR. Use \fIany\fR to capture data in all the interfaces. Examples:
.RS
.nf
interface=any
interface=eth0
.PP
.SS filter
\fIpcap\fR default filter. This parameter is overwritten when using \fBFILTER\fR parameter in command line. Examples:
.RS
.nf
filter="port 5060 or port 5062 or port 5070 or port 6060"
filter="host 1.2.3.4 and proto \\\\udp and \\( port 5060 or port 5070 \\)"
filter="port 5060"
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
Capture all INVITE and MESSAGE related messages using default filter set in configuration file:
.RS
.nf
\fBngrep-sip b\fP
.fi
.RE
Capture all traffic using port 5060:
.RS
.nf
\fBngrep-sip port 5060\fP
.fi
.RE
Capture all REGISTER transactions via TCP using port 5060 or 5070 and address 1.2.3.4:
.RS
.nf
\fBngrep-sip r proto \\\\tcp and \\( port 5060 or port 5070 \\) and host 1.2.3.4\fP
.fi
.RE
Capture all UDP datagrams using port 5060 containing "sip:alice@domain" in the headers or body:
.RS
.nf
\fBngrep-sip "sip:alice@domain" port 5060 and proto \\\\udp\fP
.fi
.RE
Capture all 6XX responses from IP 1.2.3.4:
.RS
.nf
\fBngrep-sip "^SIP/2.0 6" src host 1.2.3.4\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
.SH NOTES
\fIngrep-sip\fR can be also used to capture other kind of flow as SMTP or HTTP:
.RS
.nf
\fBngrep-sip proto \\\\tcp and port 25\fP
.fi
.RE
.PP
.SH ISSUES
When capturing TCP data a single TCP packet can contain various SIP messages. This occurs, for example, when a proxy routes all requests from different clients to same TCP destination. In those cases, the \fBmatch\fR is performed against the whole TCP packet instead of matching each SIP message separately.
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ngrep (8)
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Iñaki Baz Castillo <ibc@aliax.net>
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2008 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
